The first part of every line is the character markers. Character markers denote who is currently on screen as well as their expression, position, and animation. Here is an example:
CneuR,
Where "C" is the character identifier. Every character has a unique letter to represent them.
"neu" is the expression of the character.
"R" is the side of the screen that the character is currently on. R for Right and L for Left. By default they will be on the right side. Once the characters are initiated you do not need to include R or L.
and "," signifies that there is an additional character in the scene.
When all the characters are submitted, you finish by making a newline. Here is an example of a converation between Circle Man and Box Man where Circle man is angry at the beginning of the scene:
CangR, BneuL:"What a nice day!"

To write the actual dialogue, first, start the line with the speaker. Give their identifier and portrait index, followed by a colon to signify the dialogue. The dialogue should always be in quotes.
Once you are finished with a line of dialogue, simpily make a newline or nothing if it is the final line of dialogue. If you wish to change other character portraits other than the speaker, 
put their identifier and portrait index BEFORE the speakers. They should be seperated by a comma. Here are some examples.
Cneu:"Alright, I think this will be fine."
Bpan:"I'm not sure this is a good idea..."
Bang, Csad:"Well... If you're sure..."

In the dialogue you can set and check for flags. To set a flag when a line of dialogue is read, you put would put Fset"IngridBaggage2" after the dialogue seperated by a colon. For example:
Cneu:"This isn't working out": Fset"Circle1"
You can set multiple flags with a colon:
Cneu, Bneu:"This isn't working out": Fset"Box1", Fset"Circle1", Fset"Moxie"
If you want to block dialogue from being read unless a flag is set use the following command in the same place you set flags: Fget"Box1"
If the flag is not found the program will skip over the line. This also prevents any flag setters from setting flags. For example:
Cneu, Bneu:"This isn't working out": Fget"Box1", Fset"Box2"
That dialogue will not set the Box2 flag if Box1 is not already set.
Duplicate flags are automatically filtered out.